# NodeJS POC Project
A NodeJS project designed to learn the ins and outs of NodeJS.

This project will be used to learn NodeJS.  Target audience is developers who have used other Web Development frameworks, namely .NET MVC / API v2.  

This project will grow in complexity as new techniques are incorporated.  The idea is to start with the most trivial examples using as few dependencies as possible and expand from there.  As a result, many instructions for installing dependencies will happen later in the development process than they would for a more seasoned Node developer.  

This project will also serve to document each step, no matter how trivial, during the setup process.

#Section 1: Hello Node (The most basic of basic web applications) 

__Note__ most of this "Hello Node" portion of this project is based on dumbed-down version of of _Ben Gourley's_ tutorial.  
[A Simple Website in Node.js – 2016 Edition](http://www.clock.co.uk/blog/a-simple-website-in-node-js-2016-edition).  

Much of __Section 1__ is simply over explaining steps that are already outlined in his tutorial.

## Project Initialization
The first step is to create a root directory, we'll call it 'node_poc' for now, and to cd into that directory.

```
mkdir node_poc
cd node_poc
```

Next we have to initialize node 

```
npm init
```

This command will promt you to fill out same basic info for your project, feel free to hit enter for each prompt to add default values.
Since this is not a production application these details can be ommitted for now (You can always modify them later).

This command will also generate the file _package.json_.  The package.json will contain the details of your app that have were
generated by the promts from the `npm init` command.  It will also act as a package manager, storing any dependencies you install.

## Adding Express Dependency
Express is a web application framework that provides HTTP Utility methods, routing, and other features essential to a basic web application.  There are several alternatives to Express and it is by no means the only solution, however it is a framework that fits the needs of a first time node application as well as more robust production level applications, making it suitable for the scope of this project.  More information on express can be found on the [projects website](http://expressjs.com).

Add the express dependencies by entering the following command from the projects root folder:

```
npm i --save express@4
```

__A note on the paramaters__
The `i` paramater installs the target package to a newly created folder _node_modules_ which will contain all of your future dependencies.  

The `--save` paramater adds this dependency to your packages.json file's dependencies section.  This will allow you to use the command `nmp install` to install in any dependencies you have previously saved, without having to commit the files in `node_modules` to your repository. 

##views directory
Create a directory from the root of your application.

````
mkdir views
```

The views directory will contain all of the web pages that will be available from your server.

##index.html

Create file index.html in the root of your views directory. 

```
touch views/index.html
```

index.html will be the default webpage that is shown when you run your webserver.

Add the following HTML markup to index.html

```
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <title>Hello NodeJS</title>
</head>
<body>
    <p>Hello NodeJS</p>
</body>
```

##Server.js
Create a file named server.js using the following command
```
touch server.js
```

This file will be the entry point for you web server. Adding the following code to create a simple web server to host your content.

```
/*load the express dependencies */ 
var express = require("express");
var app = express();
var router = express.Router();

/*set the root of your html files*/
var path = __dirname + '/views/';

/*create a basic router configuration*/
router.use(function (req,res,next) {
  console.log("/" + req.method);
  next();
});

/*Set the defaul webpage*/ 
router.get("/",function(req,res){
  res.sendFile(path + "index.html");
});

/*Add instructions to serve up your webpage*/
app.use("/",router);

app.listen(3000,function(){
  console.log("Live at Port 3000");
});

```
